let's get the latest on the situation
inside Gaza safwat alut joins us on the
phone safat as we've been reporting a
very heavy night of bombardment in Gaza
talk us through exactly what's
happened well add think another heavy
night to the to the previous heavy night
actually and today is uh now 10 days
same uh uh strength of the fire uh but
last night it has intensified in three
different areas in the in the north of
kav in Gaza City and even in the South
where where they ask people to evacuate
or to move so uh one of the most
sensitive places that they hit was the
civil defense uh base and our station in
Gaza City which is based next to one of
the biggest hospitals in Gaza City uh
the the governmental press office in
Gaza said that s civil defense
um have been killed in this attack and
in the two neighborhood also they uh
they hit one of the houses four people K
were killed including three children and
one adult uh the South the same so the
we have been receiving lots of uh
information
about new and more casualties arriving
to the local hospitals who are already
suffering from uh you know from
difficult
situation um we could hear from where
I'm staying now in D balah City it's the
central area of Gaza between Gaza and
canun I could hear from time to time
that the the explosions we don't know
where they are exactly but we can't hear
them it could be or should be from the
artillery the isi artillery bombing uh
different areas in east of the where we
are staying or uh we are not sure if
this if these explosions could hear
could be he in the South and in the
north but at least where from where I am
staying we could hear this explosions
Safa tell us a bit more about what's
happening in the South it's been about
48 hours since Israel started demanding
that uh people in the north move to the
South how many have actually gone to the
South and how what is the situation
there look let's start with uh the new
deadline that Israel is provided a few
minutes they have give they give a new
deadline for the people in the north and
in G City who who could not or or who
has not left the the Gaza City and the
north of Gaza so they give them more
another deadline from uh 5 GMT to 9 GMT
to leave the Gaza the Gaza City and the
north of G otherwise they will Implement
their plans still unclear what kind what
other more plans they have but uh it's
not really lovely threat from what we
understand that they will uh start
bombarding more different areas in in
Gaza City and in the RO so at least half
of the population of Gaza City and the
north of Gaza managed to leave to move
out of the of to the South and to the
central area uh in in the Gaza St these
the people or this the huge am a big
amount of people who left from Gaza to
the unknown places in the in the in the
South uh they they are staying
everywhere and some of them I we we met
like they're staying under some trees
that the now the priority for every G
now is to find uh some water to drink
and a place to stay overnight with his
children the the schools everywhere are
are full kindergartens are are full full
wedding halls are are full universities
everywhere you can you can imagine is
full of refugees who were displaced who
manag to get displaced from from the
Gaza City and from the north towards the
South many cannot find means of
transportation to move uh and to uh to
to secure themselves from the north and
from Gaza City toward the South because
there is lack of fuel the means of
transportation
have almost stopped here when I'm
staying by the way I can see people
carrying uh bottles and they start their
journey and I I'm one of them also that
I have to secure some water for my
children as well and on the other side
also I can see uh hundreds of people are
lining up at the bakery um waiting for
uh to get or hopefully they can get uh
uh some bread or some food for the
families the supermarket everywhere is
running out of everything literally
everyone is is is emptied because of the
emergency and because of the lack of
supplies uh due to the Israeli closure
for Gaza bord yeah as you say uh the the
biggest situ the biggest problem is is
The Siege nothing new is able to come in
but we are now hearing uh the
possibility of the Rafa Crossing being
opened at 9:00 a.m. what more do you
know about that and how desperately
needed is it that Aid comes through
now look the the time L for Gins to stay
alive is very limited I'm seeing I'm
telling that from my own personal
experience uh so we are counting um our
lives minute by minute hour by hour so
uh they need they should have this this
procedure should have been done
immediately on the at the beginning of
the war because here as we mentioned uh
the people are buying or consuming
everything that have been saved already
before the war or before the before the
recent War
so um if the these borders are not all
open or these humanitarian AIDS are not
arriving uh into the Gaza Strip then
there will be much more even
catastrophes but these catastrophes will
be collected because
the suffering from South to the north is
the same there's no safe place or
there's no place that full of food and
why the others are not so uh regarding
the nine uh uh at nine that the crossing
will open there are still negotiations
and Egypt is linking or preconditioning
the the allowing the foreigners to leave
the G strip with allowing the the food
Aid uh into the Gaza Strip we know that
uh
um Jordan Turkey Arab Emirates and even
Egypt they have been Gathering lots of
Aid at Alish which is the other side of
the Palestinian Egyptian borders so and
they are waiting for uh political
decision or Israeli approval to uh to
allow uh quantities H big quantities of
of Aid to intera so uh the I talked to
to one of the foreigners here and who
said uh who who confirmed to me uh this
news but and they have been receiving
day byday update but he said nothing
nothing still confirmed okay thank you
so much for that update safat Al kalut
there for us on the phone from Gaza